Please download the PDF attached to this lecture in this section, you are going to log into your server
and start the process of pardoning the server.
This is the process of enhancing server security through a variety of means which results in a much
more secure server operating environment.
This process will be completed firstly as the route user and then as a non route user.
Please ensure that you have created a server instance.
As per the lecture on websites, you will need to make a note of the server IP and the route user's
password.
Using S.H., you are going to log in to your server, it's most important that you have set up terminal
as per the section software.
We are going to open terminal and then log in to the server using SSL, which we will log in initially
as the router user, the steps that we are going to complete as the route user.
Firstly, after logging in, we will change the route user's password.
Then we are going to add a new non-routine user to the server.
We will give that new non route user the ability to invoke route privileges.
We then you to configure the server to prevent anyone logging in as the route user.
Finally, after completing these steps, we will log out of the server as the route user and log in
as a non route user with route privileges.
To log into your server, you need to open terminal and type.
The SS command is actually the space user, which will be route at the server IP address after typing
s h route at your service IP address, you will be prompted to accept or deny the server fingerprint.
After accepting the server fingerprint, you will be prompted to type the route user's password.
After typing the route user's password, you will log in to your server.
Before we get to that step, let's look at the server fingerprint.
Server authentication or the server fingerprint is a process that allows client applications to validate
a service identity.
When you connect to a server, you want to be sure it is the correct server you are connecting to.
The first time you log into any server, you will be prompted to accept or deny the connection based
on the servers fingerprint.
When you accept the service fingerprint, it is stored locally on subsequent connections.
It will check and compare the locally stored fingerprint with that on the server.
If they match, the connection to the server will continue.
If there is a mismatch, you will be warned that the service fingerprint has changed.
If the server fails the host key authentication process, then it's possible that the servers host key
has changed.
This change could be due to an operating system reinstallation or it could mean someone has carried
out a spoofing or man in the middle attack.
If you didn't reinstall the server operating system, do not continue with the connection.
Recheck the server details carefully, as it could also be due to you typing the incorrect details.
If you reinstall the server operating system, the mismatch is a consequence of that reinstallation.
You then need to remove the old or existing server fingerprint if you reinstalled the server operating
system.
This can be done by editing the known hosts file and removing the entry that corresponds to your server.
You can open the file using a text editor and remove the entire line that contains your servers IP address.
This is what a known hosts file looks like.
The IP address followed by the server fingerprint.
If you administer multiple servers, each service fingerprint will be added to the known post file.
I'm going to log in to my server.
So at this stage you need to open terminal Windows users.
You can open Commander Mac and Linux users.
You can open terminal the commander's SS.
Actually, the space route at now I need my service IP address in the vulture control panel.
I'll click on my servers hostname IP address.
I can copy back to terminal.
I can paste the IP address.
The authenticity of host followed by my IP can't be established.
Are you sure you want to continue connecting?
The first time you log in, you will be prompted to accept the server fingerprint.
We want to continue connecting.
You need to type the word yes and then press enter route at my service IP password back to the vulture
control panel and I will copy the password back to terminal.
I can paste the password and I have logged in to my server as the route user.
Periodically I will be typing the clear command.
The clear command will clear the information from the screen and position the prompt at the top left
hand corner in the Linux Essential Skill Section.
We have looked at the terminal prompt.
I'm briefly going to look at it again.
The user is route at the hostname.
My hostname a boonchu 20 zero four Kolon.
The told indicates I'm in the user's home directory, so I am currently in the route user's home directory.
The hash indicates I'm working as the route user.
The flashing underscore is waiting for me to type a command current working directory TWD.
I'm currently located in the slash root directory slash route.
Is the home directory off the route.
User vulture's method of providing the route pass through to you is secure enough, but I recommend
you change the route user's password.
Use a mixture of letters, numbers and special characters.
The password must be secure to change the password of the current user.
The current user that I'm working, as is the route user you type VSS, W.D., new password.
You need to type your desired password as a security precaution.
You will not see any characters appear on the screen as you type the password.
The new password will need to be typed twice.
Please make a note of the route users new password.
I need to retype my password password updated successfully.
Now I need to add a new user to the server.
This user will be a non rude user, but the user will have route privileges by having route privileges
means that my user will be able to perform administrative tasks on the server that are the job of the
user.
Before I add my user, I'm going to list the files to be found in the home directory.
The home directory is empty.
The command is add user Niva Space, followed by the user name.
I'll use the user name Andrew in selecting a user name.
Please use lowercase letters and numbers or just lowercase letters.
After pressing into adding user Andrew, adding new group Andrew, creating a home directory slash home
slash Andrew, now I need to type a password for the user.
Andrew, I need to confirm the password for my user password updated successfully and I'll be prompted
for full name.
You can press, enter room number, enter work phone, enter home phone, enter other enter.
Is the information correct.
Yes.
If you press your up there ok you will repeat the previous command.
So if I press at once add user Andrew if I press my Baraki again Ellis slash home inside slash home
we have a directory called Andrew above we can see creating a home directory slash home slash Andrew.
The command to delete or remove a user is in the PDF attached to this lecture.
So now we've added a non root user to the server.
Now we need to give that user route privileges.
The command is v.i. sudo visu do will open the file slash etsi slash sudo is dot tmp.
Most important, this file is only edited with the command v.i. sudo do not attempt to edit this file
manually.
You can scroll down to the comment user privilege specification.
Any line that starts with the hash is a comment underneath user privilege specification.
We have route to the right of route.
We have all equals.
All, all, all.
Now we top the user.
We added.
In my case, Andrew, now you need to top the falls as indicated above all equals open bracket.
All colon, all closed brackets.
Space all.
The first all indicates that this rule will apply to all hosts, the second all the user is able to
run commands as all users.
The third, all the corresponding user is able to run commands as all groups.
The last all indicates that these rules will apply to all commands, that all the above indicate that
the corresponding user in my case, Andrew, will be able to run any command with SUDO if my user provides
the password.
Now we need to close the file.
Saving the changes that we have made to the sudo is not peafowl control x save modified buffer you can
tap Y for yes file name to write.
Do not make any changes.
You can simply press enter.
If I press Mobarak to repeat the Vasudha command, my user has been given privileges.
We have not made any changes to this file.
If our top control x vasudha seduced or Tempy unchanged, one of the most important steps in server
security route user login must be disabled completely.
To do that, we need to edit a configuration file.
This configuration file is the SS HD underscore config file.
Its location in the file system is slash BTC slash.
If each CD I want to change directories slash BTC, I'm going to press enter a listing of the contents
of the directory.
I'll scroll up.
There is the directory.
It says when you look at your prompt, your prompt is indicating your current location in the file system.
You are in the slash EDC directory.
We now want to change to the directory.
That is a local path name change directory ESUs H.
Look at the change in the prompt code slash ITC slash edge and this thing will display the SS HD underscore
config file.
That is the file we want to edit.
We will come back to that file short.
The top CD CD will always take you back to the home directory.
I'm in my home directory.
The file I want to edit is located in the slash EDC slash its directory CD Change Directory Slash indicates
my route.
Etsy is just off the route slash esus edge and enter the second slash is simply acting as a separator.
Please make a note of the file.
Is this underscore config.
Its location in the file system is slash slash its edge.
Before we edit any configuration file, make a backup copy of the file.
You never know when disaster strikes and you need a copy of the original configuration file.
Copy we want to copy, followed by the name of the file in this case SS HD underscore config.
Leave a space, then you retype the file name is this H.T. underscore config but add a dot back to the
filename after pressing enter.
And if you list the files, we now have a new file added to the list is this underscore config the back.
If you want to restore a particular configuration file, you reverse the filenames.
The command to keep the file name is is this underscore config vacay.
Then you leave a space.
The new file name would be is this H.T. underscore config and you have restored the configuration file
back to its original state using your backup file.
Now we want to edit the file.
This is HD Underscore Config.
The editor that we use with the boon to is NENO.
So you type NENO often and you type the file name which is is this HD underscore config.
I'm going to top control X to close Nnenna.
We made no changes to the file, therefore we were not prompted to save any changes.
KDDI back to my home directory right at the top I typed CD slash EDC slash s h.
I change to the directory that contained the file that I wanted to edit.
Further down I typed and then followed by the file name to open that particular file, Inanna and start
editing that is using the local Pauw name.
I can also use the absolute last name.
The absolute path name will be the path to the file from the root directory.
So it's in there.
No, the the space slash my route.
The next directory is slash s h slash esus hd underscore config press enter.
I will open the Asus HD underscore config file using the absolute path.
I prefer you to use the first method change to the directory that contains the file and then open the
file using a local POV name.
It gives you practice using the CD copy.
As well as a better understanding of where the various configuration files are located in the file system,
KDDI Slash ETEK Slash is such a listing.
The file we want to edit is this underscore config NENO followed by the filename press enter.
We will open the file using Nannar.
As with most configuration files and Ilan's starting with a hash is a comment.
If you scroll down you will find a comment.
Authentication underneath authentication permit login.
Yes, you need to remove yes and type no.
We now want to close neno control x save modified buffer.
We are being prompted because we made a change to the file type y file name to write this.
This would underscore config press enter.
As with most changes in configuration to enable the change you need to restart the service that is associated
with the configuration file that you were editing.
The service that there is this HD config file controls is a Secich.
So what we need to do now to enable the change in configuration, we need to restart the service.
You need to type system CTL, the system ctrl command is used to restart or reload or to start or stop
various services on the server system.
CTL is the services manager utility, so we type system CTL.
What do we want to do?
We want to restart Uniacke space.
Now you need to type the name of the service that you want to restart, which is a Secich.
At this stage we are finished working as the root user to log out of your server.
You can type the command exit log out connection to my IP closed.
I have logged out of my server.
Now we need to continue hardening our server, but not as the root user, as the non-routine user with
route privileges that we created a few minutes ago.